[Music]
hi I'm Miriam from BBC good food and I'm
going to show you how to make flat duck
it's a really simple recipe so all I
need is some light brown sugar so I've
got 100 grams here and that goes in my
pan see that I'm going to add 200 grams
of butter and then 3 tablespoons of
golden syrup keep that really gently
until it's all melted together it's
really syrupy enough
so that's all melted it's really syrupy
delicious I'm just going to add it to
300 grams of notes these are just normal
porridge oats you could use a mixture of
jumbo notes as well if you like
it's all in there just give it a big mix
so all the oats are really coated in the
syrup if you want to now be a really
good time to add some dried fruit or
some chopped up chocolate or some nuts
whatever you like to flavor it now I'm
just going to tip into the tin I've just
greased this and lined it with some
baking parchment press it into all the
corners for the back of your spoon make
sure it's nice and flat
that's ready to bake now so I'm gonna
put it in the oven about 150 degrees
hundred and thirty fan for around 40 to
45 minutes that's had about 4045 minutes
now and it's lovely and golden just
leave it in the tin for a few minutes
until it's cooler and then mark it into
some chunks and then chop it up you can
then dip it in some chocolate or just
drizzle some over if you like so the
basic formula for flapjacks is oats
butter and sugar as we've seen there's
no reason why you can't vary those
ingredients a little bit so to begin
with I'm going to put some peanut butter
in my pan and then a little bit of
butter as well instead of sugar I'm
adding maple syrup and I'm also going to
add some fruit set these melting on a
low heat as before and that gives me
time to get the frig Eddie while that's
melting gently I'm just gonna prepare
the Apple you repeal it and then
coarsely grate it
that's my Apple grated I'm gonna mash
some banana as well and they're both
going to add extra sweetness
[Music]
as soon as that smashed just pop it into
the peanut butter and butter mix and add
your grated Apple as well then add 100
mils of hot water and give it a good
stir for extra flavor to these flapjacks
I've got some seeds just mix seeds and
they're all going in with you some
chopped dried apricots and some raisins
and then as you did before add the wet
ingredients to the oat mixture
of into prepared 10
just press it right down into all
corners this is a slightly wetter neck
so I'm going to cook it at 160 or 140
fan for about 50 55 minutes so that's
ready and it's all golden-brown just
leave it in the tin for a few minutes to
cool before you chop it up into pieces
flapjacks are really versatile recipe so
you can add fruits or anything you like
flavorings like cinnamon work really
well or you can add like a really nice
frosting on top like a really lovely
ginger buttercream so there you go it's
a few recipes of how to make flapjack
from BBC good food